# Overview
This is the 4th project in the list given in the pdf. It will be of 2 types of decision trees that will be made in Ocaml.

# Labels in issues
If you are needing to assign someone to some task then create an issue and use the "assign" label.

If you need help with an issue, then comment on it so we can keep track of what has been asked.

If you have anything that could be added or changed to the project then create an issue and use the "enhanced" label.

# Getting ocamlgraph library
Here are the steps needed to get ocamlgraph set up to be able to run the Makefile:
1. run ```opam install ocamlgraph```
2. run ```ocamlc -where```. This tells you where your ocaml libraries are being loaded from. However, opam installs the ocamlgraph library in the directory above which should be the "lib" directory.
3. Copy & paste the ocamlgraph library from that "lib" folder into the "ocaml" folder (which is where the where command specified earlier).

Now you should be able to run the ```make``` command using ocamlgraph. The ocamlgraph folder included with this repository is an instance of the library that Merlin uses in Visual Studio Code to be able to help us code with ocamlgraph.

# Information for Dot files
You can find out more information on dot files [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOT_(graph_description_language)) if you have not worked with them before. Dot files can be viewed [here](https://dreampuf.github.io/GraphvizOnline/) by copying and pasting the output in the command line into the the interpreter on that page.

# Working with Merlin server in Visual Studio code
The ```.merlin``` file is what the merlin server looks at to see what should be loaded when parsing through code. You can look to [this](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/project-configuration) to read more. The file shows where the source files are to link them all together using an ```S```. The ```B``` is to tell it where all the built files are. These let it be able to use the files to help you write code. For example, when writing the tree test file it helps by knowing where the built build tree file is to allow you to write program using that file. Will also put the given ocamlgraph library built files in this manner so we can program using ocamlgraph.

# Running code in Visual studios
As of right now, we cannot run any test code in Visual Studios as the ocamlgraph library is not loaded from the TopDirs module which is what is what loads in all standard libraries when you run ```ocaml``` in the terminal to start up an ocaml session. We will need to figure out how to do this if we want to test our code as we go. Otherwise, we will need to run test as mentioned in the next section.

# To build and run code
You will need to do a few things to before you can run the ```make``` command:
1. Makefile
    - The Makefile is named MAKFEFILE in the repository because of github's naming. You will need to change MAKFEILE to Makefile to be able to run the ```make``` command.
    - The Makefile's SRC should have the last element in that list be the ocaml file that you want to run. The RESULT option will be the name of the executable file that will be generated by ```make```.
  
2. You need to adress the [Getting ocamlgraph library](https://github.com/14corman/AIDescisionTree#getting-ocamlgraph-library) section before running ```make```.

3. The ```make``` command will produce more than just the executable. The executable will be made in the diractory that ```make``` was ran from, but byte code and native code will be generated for each ocaml file registed in the SRC option of the Makefile. These pieces of code will be found alongside the files in their respective folders. If you have updated any of the ocaml files in the src folder than you must take their byte code and native code files and copy & paste them into the build folder. Merlin uses the files in the build folder to tell you what is and is not available for each file while coding.

Something else to mention is that the files in the SRC option of the Makefile are ordered in such a way that the first file does not depend on anything, file2 depends on file1, etc. A file can depend on multiple files before it such as the last file in the list should be the file that has runnable code which will depend on all files before it.


# Example outputs
## CreateDot
The CreateDot.exe file should have this output in a command prompt:
```
digraph G {
  root;
  child_1;
  child_2;


  root -> child_1;
  root -> child_2;

  }
```

## ParseDot
The ParseDot.exe should be called as such:
``` cmd
ParseDot.exe [name of dot file].dot
```

There is 1 input that is the name of the dot file to be parsed. If we pass in the file SampleTree.dot, then we should get 
```
digraph G {
  "0";
  "1";
  "5";
  "7";
  "8";
  "9";
  "11";
  "12";
  "10";
  "6";
  "2";
  "3";
  "4";
  
  
  "0" -> "1" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "0" -> "2" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "1" -> "5" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "1" -> "6" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "5" -> "7" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "5" -> "8" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "8" -> "9" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "8" -> "10" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "9" -> "11" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "9" -> "12" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "2" -> "3" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  "2" -> "4" [label=<f&#36;oo>, ];
  
  }

```

as output in a tmp.dot file.
